{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\f0\fs22\lang9 Report of Technique\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 There are several different programs and web tools used in the creation and development of StockIT project. Below is a list of and a brief description for them:\par
\b GitHub\par
\b0 Our team uses GitHub to upload their files for the project so, all the team members can have access to them. Creating a user account and setting a password is required to use GitHub. An internet connection is necessary to download the software package and to gain access to repositories. \b (1) \par
\b0 All of our team members are informed about how to operate their GitHub repository. Taylen Anderson created and shared a video about the instructions to follow. \b\par
MS Office\par
\b0 The main program we use to create text files is Microsoft Word. Our entire team have used MS Word in their daily lives and in their fields of work. It is installed through Microsoft Office. A software licence is necessary to install this suite. MS Office can be installed in computers with Windows or Apple operating systems only. Minimum hardware requirements vary by the version of the software.  The necessary hardware and software specifications for MS Office 2021 is as follows:\b (2)\b0\par
Processor:\par
Windows OS: 1.6 GHz or faster, 2-core\par
macOS: Intel processor\par
\par
Memory:\par
Windows OS: 4 GB RAM; 2 GB RAM (32-bit)\par
macOS: 4 GB RAM\par
\par
Storage:\par
Windows OS: 4 GB of available disk space\par
macOS: 10 GB of available disk space; HFS+ hard disk format (also known as macOS Extended) or APFS\par
\par
Display:\par
Windows OS: 1280 x 768 screen resolution (32-bit requires hardware acceleration for 4K and higher)\par
macOS: 1280 x 800 screen resolution.\par
Web apps require the same minimum resolution as the OS they are running on.\par
\par
Graphics:\par
Windows OS: Graphics hardware acceleration requires DirectX 9 or later, with WDDM 2.0 or higher for Windows 10 (or WDDM 1.3 or higher for Windows 10 Fall Creators Update).\par
macOS: No graphics requirements.\par
\par
Operating System:\par
Windows OS: Windows 10, Windows Server 2019, Windows 2022\par
macOS: Office for Mac is supported on the three most recent versions of macOS. As new major versions of macOS are made generally available, Microsoft will drop support for the oldest version and support the newest and previous two versions of macOS. Product functionality and feature availability may vary on older systems. For the best experience, use the latest version of any operating system specified above.\par
\par
Browser:\par
The current version of Microsoft Edge, Internet Explorer, Safari, Chrome, or Firefox. \par
NET version\par
Windows: Some features may require .NET 3.5 or 4.6 and higher to also be installed.\par
\par
Other Requirements:\par
For Windows:\par
Internet functionality requires an internet connection. Fees may apply.\par
A touch-enabled device is required to use any multitouch functionality, But, all features and functionality are always available by using a keyboard, mouse, or other standard or accessible input device. Note that touch features are optimized for use with Windows 10.\par
Product functionality and graphics may vary based on your system configuration. Some features may require additional or advanced hardware or server connectivity.\par
Microsoft account or organizational account required for license assignment.\par
\b Adobe Spark\b0\par
Spark is the program we use to create logos, graphics and visual artifacts in the user interface. It can be downloaded from Adobe official website. Adobe, Apple, Google, Facebook or personal email is necessary to use Spark but it is a free software. \b (3)\par
\b0 Windows 8.1 or a higher Microsoft Windows operating system is required. It can be used on the latest Chromebooks too. For Apple OS, iOs 13 or higher is the minimum requirement. For Android OS, Android 7(Nougat) or higher is necessary.\par
Two of the most recent versions of Chrome, Safari, Firefox and Edge(Chromium) web browsers are supported. These browsers must have JavaScript installed as an add-on.\par
Adobe Spark requires at least 4 gigabytes of memory capactiy.\b (4)\par
Canva\par
\b0 StockIT team uses Canva also to create logos, graphics and visual artifacts in the user interface. It is an online graphic design platform that requires a user account and a subscription to operate. Depending on usage, there are different membership options. For students and non-profit organisations it offers free subscirption. Basic free membership is also available. \b (5)\b0  Google, Apple and Facebook accounts can be used to sign-in. An internet connection is required for these processes.\par
Timothy Prast has quite extensive knowledge on both Canva and Adobe Spark.\par
\b Figma\par
\b0 For user interface design, layout and prototyping we use Figma which is a web-based desgn tool. It can be downloaded as a desktop application for MacOS or Windows OS. It also offers Live Design Preview for iOS or Android and Font Installer that can be used in Mac or MS operating systems. \b (6)\b0\par
A Google account or a personal email address can be used to create a Figma account. An internet connection is necessary to use its website and cloud data. Desktop and mobile applications can be used off-line.\par
\b Nginx\par
\b0 Team StockIT benefits from Nginx products to create the web server and the email proxy server. NgniX Unit is used to build application and web servers. An account must be created to access to NginX products. It offers free trial but after a certain period paying a subscription is necessary to continue to use the products and services.\b (7) \par
\b0 The NginX Controller requires minimum 155 gigabytes of storage and if additional databases range between 10 gigabye to 150 gigabyte. If security option is enabled another 100 gigabyte storage is required.\par
It works with computers with at least 8 gigabytes of memory and cpus with at least 8 cores.\par
Edge, Chrome, Firefox and Safari web browsers are supported. \b (8)\par
PHP\par
\b0 PHP Designer is the software we use to design the language. Its current version number is 8 and it requires on 100 megabytes of free storage and Windows XP or higher operating system. A free trial version can be installed but it requires a paid subscription after the trial period ends. \b (9,10)\par
MySQL\par
\b0 Team StockIT uses MySQL for building a database. Its most up-to date version number is 8.0. For storage the minimum required free space ranges between 500 megabytes to 1.7 gigabytes. A cpu with minimum with 2 cores and a memory with minimum 2 gigabytes of ram is necessary to operate the software. \b (11)\b0\par
This suite is not free and there are three different subscriptions to operate MySQL with database function. \b (12) \b0 Cloud and databse services are enhanced with Oracle Heatwave memory accelarator. \b (13,14)\b0\par
\b\par
Refferences:\par
(1) {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://github.com/git-guides }}{\fldrslt{https://github.com/git-guides\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
(2) {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.microsoft.com/en-au/microsoft-365/microsoft-365-and-office-resources#coreui-heading-8i242k6 }}{\fldrslt{https://www.microsoft.com/en-au/microsoft-365/microsoft-365-and-office-resources#coreui-heading-8i242k6\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
(3) {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://adobespark.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/218955007-How-much-does-Adobe-Spark-cost }}{\fldrslt{https://adobespark.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/218955007-How-much-does-Adobe-Spark-cost\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22 -\par
(4) {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://adobespark.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/218956027-What-are-the-Adobe-Spark-system-requirements }}{\fldrslt{https://adobespark.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/articles/218956027-What-are-the-Adobe-Spark-system-requirements\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22 -\par
(5) {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.canva.com/pricing/#__a11yId29 }}{\fldrslt{https://www.canva.com/pricing/#__a11yId29\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
(6) {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.figma.com/downloads/ }}{\fldrslt{https://www.figma.com/downloads/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
(7) {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.nginx.com/products/ }}{\fldrslt{https://www.nginx.com/products/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
(8) {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-controller/admin-guides/install/nginx-controller-tech-specs/#:~:text=1%20RAM%3A%208%20GB%20RAM%202%20CPU%3A%208-Core,if%20NGINX%20Controller%20App%20Security%20is%20enabled.%20 }}{\fldrslt{https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-controller/admin-guides/install/nginx-controller-tech-specs/#:~:text=1%20RAM%3A%208%20GB%20RAM%202%20CPU%3A%208-Core,if%20NGINX%20Controller%20App%20Security%20is%20enabled.%20\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
(9) {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://php-designer.en.softonic.com/ }}{\fldrslt{https://php-designer.en.softonic.com/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
(10) {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK http://www.mpsoftware.dk/phpdesigner_requirements.php }}{\fldrslt{http://www.mpsoftware.dk/phpdesigner_requirements.php\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
(11) {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-monitor/8.0/en/system-prereqs-reference.html }}{\fldrslt{https://dev.mysql.com/doc/mysql-monitor/8.0/en/system-prereqs-reference.html\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
(12) {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.mysql.com/products/ }}{\fldrslt{https://www.mysql.com/products/\ul0\cf0}}}}\b0\f0\fs22\par
\b (13) {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.mysql.com/cloud/ }}{\fldrslt{https://www.mysql.com/cloud/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
(14) {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.oracle.com/mysql/heatwave/ }}{\fldrslt{https://www.oracle.com/mysql/heatwave/\ul0\cf0}}}}\b0\f0\fs22\par
}
 