{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\b\f0\fs22\lang9 Autonomous Vehicles\b0\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\b Description and Estimation for the Future of Autonomous Vehicles\b0\par
Vehicles that operate themselves are autonomous ones. Autonomous vehicles are sometimes confused with automated vehicles. Automated vehicles are machines that are set and instructed by humans. What makes autonomous ones different from automated ones is they have capabilities beyond instructional and mechanical functions. Autonomous vehicles can sense their interior and perceive their environment. They are self-aware and they can think before making decisions. They also require less human intervention than automated vehicles do. An example of this is some self-driving cars can decide which route to follow but less autonomous ones require instruction from their owners. During transportation, an autonomous car can decide what lane of the road to follow but an automated one can be intervened by its operator and change lanes manually. The portion of human interference sets the distinction between an autonomous and an automated vehicle.\par
The Society of Automotive Engineers divides autonomous vehicles into six levels \b (1)\b0 . Each level represents the level of human input into a vehicle to operate itself. Level 0 is defined as 'No Automation' and it is fully operated by humans. Level 1 consists of 'Driver Assistance' and the vehicle can control steering or speed in some circumstances to assist the human driver. Level 2 is 'Partial Automation' and similar to Level 1, except the vehicle can control both steering and speed. Level 3 is defined as 'Conditional Automation' and the vehicle can control both steering and speed under environmental conditions with human driver's oversight. Level 4 is 'High Automation' that allows the vehicle to drive itself under normal environmental conditions without human oversight. The 5th level gives the vehicle full autonomy and it can travel autonomously without any human input. Currently, a considerable percentage of autonomous vehicles in the world market falls into the Level 3 category.\par
Most airline companies possess aeroplanes with automatic pilots that assist the human pilots during take-off, altitude control, navigation and landing. Many maritime companies also have ships with automatic captains that help human operators of the ships with simple and complex procedures. Governmental or commercial rail tracks organisations and companies use automated systems that arrange train passages and routes. Air drones help government agencies and organisations with tasks like observation, surveillance and firefighting. Some farmers have drones that help them to maintain their crop fields and protect their live-stock and production buildings.\par
In the military world, naval ships have similar automatic captains to maritime ships and also more advanced computer systems. Fighter and bomber aeroplanes have automatic pilots that help human pilots as commercial automatic pilots do. The latest generations of fighter planes are also being integrated with artificial intelligence that eases the burden on human pilots \b (2)\b0 . Today unmanned aerial vehicles are being operated by trained personnel but in near future, they will be assisted with artificial intelligence as fifth-generation fighter planes do.  \par
Currently, the most advanced self-autonomous cars are equipped with systems that enable them to perceive their full environment and surroundings, plan their routes and track their trajectories accordingly\b (3)\b0 . As systems like these develop obstacles like safety, live traffic information and changing road conditions will be overcome. More sophisticated sensors will make autonomous cars more aware of pedestrians and animals on the roads. Geometric methods, sensor and camera technology, developments in artificial intelligence, neural networks and machine learning will boost the capabilities of autonomous vehicles.\par
Because of not achieving artificial general or super intelligence yet, human researchers, developers and inventors will play the most important role in the evolution of autonomous vehicles. As commercial transportation and shipments adopt automatic vehicles, people will adapt to autonomous vehicles faster. As people become more familiar with autonomous vehicles their presence in our lives will increase.\par
\b Autonomous Vehicles vs Human Effort\par
\b0 The probability of driverless cars dominating most of the civilian traffic in urban territories is fairly high. Due to most civilian vehicles being more concentrated in city roads and electric engined cars already on the roads, autonomous vehicles and public transports will be more operational in near future. New developments in algorithms will decrease human dependence on autonomous vehicles. As artificial intelligence controls traffic more we will have less congestion on roads. This will eliminate the dangers of reckless driving and collision accidents. The number of taxi & bus drivers, train operators and people controlling the traffic will be reduced inevitably. This may cause the number of unemployed people to increase. \par
Some of the military personnel may be replaced with military drones and robots. Since machines have significantly more resistance against fatigue and energy drain, human personnel may have less tiring tasks. Naval vessels can be enhanced with undersea drones, fighter aeroplanes will be assisted with unmanned aerial drones controlled by both the human pilot and artificial intelligence augmented auto-pilot. Law-enforcement organisations can also benefit from aerial drones that will increase their surveillance capability. As civilian vehicles become more autonomous, traffic offences will be non-existent and the burden on traffic staff will be highly reduced. Similar to military personnel, some law enforcement personnel may also be replaced with autonomous control vehicles. Enhanced operational capabilities of the military and police will make our civilian lives safer.\par
In the manufacturing industry, autonomous vehicles will significantly increase productivity, quantity and quality. Manual labour will be replaced with automated production robots, assembly lines will be controlled and maintained with autonomous control devices. Packaging services will be provided by automated mechanical gadgets, stocking services will be provided by autonomous forklifts and other shifting mechanisms. These innovations will most likely reduce the need for human labour. Many companies will decrease the number of their human staff to cover the expenditures like the maintenance of automatic machines. Although we will have more abundant and higher quality products, we may see the unemployment rates of manufacturer people reach high levels similar to years after the Industrial Revolution.\par
\b Autonomous Lives\par
\b0 When cars become fully autonomous, we can have the leisure of preparing ourselves for our daily work like sorting our documents, attending video conferences and taking notes while our smart cars drive us to our workplaces. After attending a long party our cars will pick us up and take us home. When we take a taxi we will not have to instruct the driver what route to take. Busses and other public transports will be able to operate for long hours and perhaps 24/7. Having no taxi drivers, we will be obliged to carry our luggage. People with disabilities may have difficulty embarking on public transports. Elderly people will feel safer while being in a car as the advanced sensors and artificial intelligence of the car will have sharper reflexes and quicker decisions. When our family members, relatives or friends borrow our cars we will not worry about how they will bring them back. \par
Travelling in airlines, railways or maritime routes will become much safer due to transportation being augmented with artificial intelligence, neural nodes and learning machines. People with travelling phobias will feel safer and more secure when they take public or private transports. Obtaining a drivers' licence will be easier for driver candidates when they are assisted by smart cars. The burden on legal systems and courts of law will be much lighter when autonomous vehicles become more intelligent and commit little to no traffic offence. We, owners & drivers of smart cars will not have to worry about acquiring parking tickets, paying for parking fees or sustaining traffic penalties.\par
When we purchase items produced by automated machines, we will have the assurance of acquiring a product of higher quality. Most of our goods will be made by smart and efficient robots with minimum risk of fault. These innovations will increase our life quality in almost every way.\b\par
\b0 (1) {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.sae.org/standards/content/j3016_201806/ }}{\fldrslt{https://www.sae.org/standards/content/j3016_201806/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
(2) {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.airforce-technology.com/features/sukhoi-su-57-a-significant-boost-to-russian-air-combat-capabilities/ }}{\fldrslt{https://www.airforce-technology.com/features/sukhoi-su-57-a-significant-boost-to-russian-air-combat-capabilities/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
(3) {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://ms.copernicus.org/articles/12/419/2021/ }}{\fldrslt{https://ms.copernicus.org/articles/12/419/2021/\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
\b\par
}
 